What if you suddenly came into possession of five million dollars cash?
What if you could choose a superpower? What would you choose and why? How would you use it?
What if there was world peace? What would the world look like?
What if you could go back to school and study anything you wanted?
What if you could change careers? You get to choose any profession and will be highly successful. What would you choose?
What if you could talk to animals?
What if you had a chance to travel anywhere in the world, but you had to visit one location for a whole year? Where would you go and why?
What if you woke up one day as a world (or local) leader? City mayor? State governor? President? Queen? What would you do for your community?
What if you wrote a wildly successful best-selling novel? What would it be about?
You’re digging in the garden and find a fist-sized nugget of gold. There’s more where that came from in this hilarious story of sudden wealth.
Write about something ugly — war, fear, hate, or cruelty–but find the beauty (silver lining) in it or something good that comes out of it.
An asteroid and a meteoroid collide near Earth, and fragments rain down onto the planet’s surface, wreaking havoc. Some of those fragments contain surprising elements: fossils that prove life exists elsewhere in the galaxy, for example.
A kid comes out of the school bathroom with toilet paper dangling from his or her waistband.
Revisit your earliest memories of learning about faith, religion, or spirituality.
Use all of the following words in a piece of writing: bit, draw, flex, perilous, bubble, corner, rancid, pound, high, open.
Write a poem about a first romantic (dare I say: sexual) experience or encounter.
He turned the key in the lock and opened the door. To his horror, he saw…
Silvery flakes drifted downward, glittering in the bright light of the harvest moon. The blackbird soared.
Tell bad drivers, rude customers, and evil dictators how grateful you are for what they’ve done. Do it with a wink and a smile.
Write a story about a detective solving a crime that was committed against his or her partner or a crime that his or her partner committed.
Three children are sitting on a log near a stream. One of them looks up at the sky and says…
There is a magic talisman that allows its keeper to read minds. It falls into the hands of a young politician…
We’ve seen cute and cuddly dragons, mean and vicious dragons, and noble dragons. Write a story about a different kind of dragon.
Use all of the following words in a piece of writing: dash, hard, staple, billboard, part, circle, flattened.
A doctor puts his hand on his patient’s arm and says, “You or the baby will survive. Not both. I’m sorry.”
Write about when you did something bad and got away with it.
The kids were raised on the mantra “Family is everything.” What happens when they find out their parents aren’t who they pretended to be? Will the family fall apart?
You walk into your house and it’s completely different — furniture, decor, all changed. It doesn’t look like the same house anymore. And nobody’s home.
Turn ordinary animals into monsters that prey on humans: dog-sized rats, killer rabbits, or a pack of rabid mountain lions. Give the animals intelligence and set them loose.
A twinkling eye can mean many things. Write a poem about a twinkle in someone’s eye.
What determines an action or person as good or evil? Who gets to decide what or who is good or evil?
Write about your body.
Have you ever been just about to drift off to sleep only to be roused by a spontaneous memory of an embarrassing moment from your past?
Use all of the following words in a piece of writing: feast, fire, modify, squash, robbed, forgotten, under-stated.
What if you woke up naked in a public place?
What if the police showed up at your door and arrested you for a serious crime, like murder or treason?
What if someone you loved dearly was injured and in a coma for months?
What if you won the lottery?
What if you could blink your eyes and transport yourself to anywhere in the world in a flash?
What if you could meet any famous person, living or dead?
What if people encouraged you to run for public office, anything from mayor of your city to president (or prime minister) of your country?
What if you wrote a book that became a best-seller and had to go on the talk-show circuit?
What if you went camping or on a nature hike and found a priceless ancient artifact?
What if you could travel though time? When would you go?
What if you could become a master at any one skill, overnight?
What if you had a superpower?
What if you could find the love of your life but would only be together for one year?
What if you discovered a family secret that would change everything?
What if you found a treasure map that would take you all over the world?
What if aliens landed in your back yard?
What if you could visit any fantasy world — Never Land, Wonderland, Oz, Narnia, Hogwarts — which would you pick?
What if you had the opportunity to be a colonist on another planet?
What if you could solve any world problem — hunger, poverty, war, or disease?
What if you found out you were having octuplets — eight babies?
What if you could control your dreams (lucid dreaming) and you could make events occur in the real world simply by dreaming them?
What if you were the sole survivor of a plane crash or sunken ship and had to live out the remainder of your days on a desert island? What if there were one or two other survivors with you?
What if you were drafted to fight in a war?
What if you found your pet flying around the room?
What if you woke up and had a super power?
What if you suddenly lost your ability to drive a car?
What if you received a call that your parent was deathly ill or had even passed away overnight?
What if you discovered that you had another sibling?
What if you had the option of winning a large sum of money at the price of losing a significant memory?
What if you discovered that a loved one was a serial killer?
What if inanimate objects could speak to you?
What if the world found out the world was going to be destroyed in 2 weeks?
What if you met someone who could see the future?
What if your friend joined a cult that worshipped dogs?
What if you could change your career right now? You can do anything you want and do it well.
What if you could pick the next person to be a great leader of a country? Who would it be?
What if you woke up in a world that had absolutely no crime?
What if you could change people’s views on social issues such as abortion and other rights? How would you use it?
What if you stumbled upon $100,000 cash that was from someone who sells illegal drugs?
What if you had the ability to grow plants to their maturity at will?
What if you could speak to people who have died? Who would you speak to?
What if you could time travel into the past and future? How would you use this skill? What would you change?
What if your pet could only talk to you at midnight for an hour?
What if you discovered a creature that promised it could give peace to the world?
What if you could sacrifice your life to save a community of people who need drastic help?
What if you could live in any world from a fantasy or science fiction novel or show?
What if you could find the strength to forgive anyone, no matter how badly they have hurt you?
What if you could make any religious belief truly real? Which one would you pick and why?
What if you could stop a substance from being addicting? What would it be?
What if you could make someone fall in love with you?
What if an alien suddenly approached you and asked for your friendship?
What if you found out that someone has been hunting you for the past year with the intention of killing you?
What if you were hiking and heard a young child screaming deep into the woods?
What if you found out that in your past life you were a great historical figure?
What if electricity and any other power source was unavailable for a full week? What would happen?
What if your child or another loved one suddenly disappeared?
What if you found out that your coworkers could all read your mind?
What if you were unable to smile for a full month?
What if you could resurrect only one person who has died?
What if you had the problem to completely solve only one of the world’s issues? What would it be? How would you come to that choice?
What if you realized you were going to die 24 hours from now?
What if you could become a world-renowned expert on one subject? What would it be?
What if you woke up and your body was made out of bacon or some other type of food?
What if you had the power to instantly destroy the world?
What if you had the chance to do a complete reset on your life?
What if you found out all the answers to the greatest mysteries in the world?
What if you could break all the rules and never get caught for three days?
What if you could completely change the way you look? What would you change?
What if you could change the political structure of any nature? What would you change? Why?
What if you could create any mythological creature of your choice? What would it be?
What if you could cast a spell on someone you dislike? What spell would it be?
What if you could be fluent in any specific language? Which language would you choose?
What if someone from private numbers were constantly calling you for three days straight?
What if someone tried to say you committed a crime that you did not do?
What if you found out that your significant other betrayed you?
What if you could stop an event in history from happening? Would you or would you be afraid of the possible negative repercussions from it?
What if you were having a disagreement with someone and they pulled out a firearm?
What if you could control the score of the a major sporting event such as the Olympics, Super Bowl or World Cup?
What if you could meet yourself as the opposite sex? For example, if you are a woman, you might meet yourself as a man. Would you talk to your other self? How would you react?
What if you woke up and found out that you were a centaur? How would you react? What would you do?
What if you could meet your true love, but he or she would be catching you in the act of doing something unethical?
What if you could have all your bills paid for the rest of your life, but you had to eat 300 mushrooms everyday?
What if you could write a letter to God and know that he will listen and take into account everything you say? What would you write?
What if you found out that you were going to come back as a ghost after you die?
What if you had a chance to do a boot camp? What kind of boot camp would you do and why?
What if you could create your own TV show with all your friends and loved ones as the cast? What kind of show would it be and who would play which parts?
What if you could ask for a warning about anything such as your death, a job loss, or an injury? What would you ask for and why?
What if you could drive to another object in our solar system such as the moon, sun or another planet? Would you?
What if you could successfully help a fundraiser raise the funds for their goal? What fundraiser would it be and why would you choose to help?
What if you found out you were going to accomplish everything you set your mind to for the next 10 hours? What would you do?
What if you could ask for a miracle and it would actually happen? What would that be?
What if you could control exactly how the last day of your life would go? What would it be like? Who would be with you?
What if you found the cure for one illness, mental or physical? What would you choose to cure?
What if you could make a high quality parody of something? What would it be?
What if you could stop time but you could only use this skill three times? How would you use it?
What if you woke up and had a super power?
What if you suddenly lost your ability to drive a car?
What if you received a call that your parent was deathly ill or had even passed away overnight?
What if you discovered that you had another sibling?
What if you had the option of winning a large sum of money at the price of losing a significant memory?
What if you discovered that a loved one was a serial killer?
What if inanimate objects could speak to you?
What if the world found out the world was going to be destroyed in 2 weeks?
What if you met someone who could see the future?
What if your friend joined a cult that worshipped dogs?
What if you could change your career right now? You can do anything you want and do it well.
What if you could pick the next person to be a great leader of a country? Who would it be?
What if you woke up in a world that had absolutely no crime?
What if you could change people’s views on social issues such as abortion and other rights? How would you use it?
What if you stumbled upon $100,000 cash that was from someone who sells illegal drugs?
What if you had the ability to grow plants to their maturity at will?
What if you could speak to people who have died? Who would you speak to?
What if you could time travel into the past and future? How would you use this skill? What would you change?
What if your pet could only talk to you at midnight for an hour?
What if you discovered a creature that promised it could give peace to the world?
What if you could sacrifice your life to save a community of people who need drastic help?
What if you could live in any world from a fantasy or science fiction novel or show?
What if you could find the strength to forgive anyone, no matter how badly they have hurt you?
What if you could make any religious belief truly real? Which one would you pick and why?
What if you could stop a substance from being addicting? What would it be?
What if you could make someone fall in love with you?
What if an alien suddenly approached you and asked for your friendship?
What if you found out that someone has been hunting you for the past year with the intention of killing you?
What if you were hiking and heard a young child screaming deep into the woods?
What if you found out that in your past life you were a great historical figure?
What if electricity and any other power source was unavailable for a full week? What would happen?
What if your child or another loved one suddenly disappeared?
What if you found out that your coworkers could all read your mind?
What if you were unable to smile for a full month?
What if you could resurrect only one person who has died?
What if you had the problem to completely solve only one of the world’s issues? What would it be? How would you come to that choice?
What if you realized you were going to die 24 hours from now?
What if you could become a world-renowned expert on one subject? What would it be?
What if you woke up and your body was made out of bacon or some other type of food?
What if you had the power to instantly destroy the world?
What if you had the chance to do a complete reset on your life?
What if you found out all the answers to the greatest mysteries in the world?
What if you could break all the rules and never get caught for three days?
What if you could completely change the way you look? What would you change?
What if you could change the political structure of any nature? What would you change? Why?
What if you could create any mythological creature of your choice? What would it be?
What if you could cast a spell on someone you dislike? What spell would it be?
What if you could be fluent in any specific language? Which language would you choose?
What if someone from private numbers were constantly calling you for three days straight?
What if someone tried to say you committed a crime that you did not do?
What if you found out that your significant other betrayed you?
What if you could stop an event in history from happening? Would you or would you be afraid of the possible negative repercussions from it?
What if you were having a disagreement with someone and they pulled out a firearm?
What if you could control the score of the a major sporting event such as the Olympics, Super Bowl or World Cup?
What if you could meet yourself as the opposite sex? For example, if you are a woman, you might meet yourself as a man. Would you talk to your other self? How would you react?
What if you woke up and found out that you were a centaur? How would you react? What would you do?
What if you could meet your true love, but he or she would be catching you in the act of doing something unethical?
What if you could have all your bills paid for the rest of your life, but you had to eat 300 mushrooms everyday?
What if you could write a letter to God and know that he will listen and take into account everything you say? What would you write?
What if you found out that you were going to come back as a ghost after you die?
What if you had a chance to do a boot camp? What kind of boot camp would you do and why?
What if you could create your own TV show with all your friends and loved ones as the cast? What kind of show would it be and who would play which parts?
What if you could ask for a warning about anything such as your death, a job loss, or an injury? What would you ask for and why?
What if you could drive to another object in our solar system such as the moon, sun or another planet? Would you?
What if you could successfully help a fundraiser raise the funds for their goal? What fundraiser would it be and why would you choose to help?
What if you found out you were going to accomplish everything you set your mind to for the next 10 hours? What would you do?
What if you could ask for a miracle and it would actually happen? What would that be?
What if you could control exactly how the last day of your life would go? What would it be like? Who would be with you?
What if you found the cure for one illness, mental or physical? What would you choose to cure?
What if you could make a high quality parody of something? What would it be?
What if you could stop time but you could only use this skill three times? How would you use it?
What if you could be anywhere for the next hour? Where would you go or would you just stay where you are?
Write about going back to school after summer vacation.
Write a thank you note to a friend who gave you onion and garlic-flavored chewing gum.
Draw an imaginary constellation. Write a story such as ancient people might have told about it.
Describe a real made-up dream or nightmare.
Write about your favorite childhood toy. journal writing prompts
Write out the best or the worst day of your life.
Finish this thought: if I could change one thing about myself (if you can't think of anything, you might want to consider telling how you got to be perfect!)
If and when I raise children, I'll never...
I have never been more frightened than when...
Persuade a friend to give up drugs.
Five years from now, I will be...
Write about a day you'd like to forget.
Describe an event that changed your life forever, or make up and describe an event that would change your life forever.
Describe someone who is a hero to you and explain why.
Write about a time in your life when you struggled with a choice and made the right one.
Imagine yourself in a different century and describe an average day in your life.
Which character from a book would you most like to meet and why?
Three goals I have set for myself are...
What would you do if 300 mice had just gotten out of their cages in a pet shop where you worked?
What would you do if you were locked inside your favorite department store overnight?
What would you do if you woke up one morning to find yourself invisible?
What would you do if you were able to communicate with animals?
What would you do if you could travel into the future?
What would you do if you could travel into the past?
What would you do if someone just gave you $1 million?
What would you do it all the electricity in the world just stopped?
What would you do if you could travel free anyplace in the world?
What would you do if the dinner served to you in a fancy restaurant came with a fly in the mashed potatoes?
Write a list of at least 50 things that make you feel good.
Describe the perfect day. Put in as many details as you can. Make it a possible day, not a "dream day."
Who is the person from history that you would most like to meet and talk to? Why? What would you like to ask?
Who is the person from literature that you would most like to meet and talk to? Why? What would you like to ask?
Compile a list of words that describe you as a child. Compile a second list that describes you as you are now. How are these lists the same? How are they different?
Compile a list of inanimate or animate objects to which you might compare yourself metaphorically. (I am a windmill. I change direction or my thoughts whenever someone talks to me...)
Tell about what triggers anger in you or someone else.
Invent a monster and describe it. Tell where it lives, what it eats, and what it does.
What is your favorite kind of weather? Why?
What is the best book you have ever read? Why did you like it? Did reading the book change you in any way? What way?
Write about what you didn't do this weekend.
Think about an incident that happened to you and exaggerate in the telling. Make it into a tall tale.
If you were ruler of the world, what things would you banish absolutely for all time (rain on weekends, eggplant, and so forth)? Make a list. Use your imagination.
If you could go back in time anywhere and "anywhen," where/when would you go and why?
What law would you like to see enacted which would help people? How would it help?
What commercial on TV do you dislike beyond all others? What about it is particularly annoying to you?
Design some gadget, machine, building, or other creation that might enrich the future. What does it look like? What does it do? How does it function? In what ways might it benefit people?journal writing prompts
What current fashion in clothing do you particularly like or dislike? Explain. journal writing prompts
Convince someone why music or art or computers are important in your life. Make them appreciate your viewpoint.
If you had $100,000, how would you spend it?
Be a building you know well. Talk about your life and memories.
You are to tell a person from a distant planet or from another era what pollution is. Make that person understand what causes it and why it is bad.
If you could do something that you never have done before, what would it be? Why would you want to do it?
Begin a list of questions that you'd like to have answered. They may be about the future or the past.
What do you consider your greatest accomplishment to date and why?
Write one characteristic or habit about yourself that you like and describe it. Or write about one thing you don't like about yourself.
What is your hobby? Why do you enjoy it?
If you could go somewhere where you've never gone before, where would you go and why?
What's, if anything, would you be willing to fight or even die for? Explain your answer.
If you could change one thing about the world, what would it be? Why would you make this change?
Is there a machine you feel you could not live without? Explain.
Write about what you think you will be like and what you will be doing 10 years or 20 years from now.
Did you ever stick up for someone?
Describe your neighborhood bully.
Write about a baby-sitting experience.
Describe a great fort you built for a great game you played as a child.
Write about an enemy who eventually became your friend.
Write about a time you cheated and got caught.
Write about a privilege you earned.
Write about the stray animal you brought home.
Did you ever send away for something that turned out to be a disappointment? (Or order something over the Internet)
What is it like to go shopping with your mother?
Write about a time you performed in front of an audience.
Write about a difficult decision you had to make.
Write about learning to skate, to ride a bike, to climb a tree, or to turn a cart wheel.
Did you ever get lost in a strange town?
Were you ever locked in or out? What did you do?
What was it like to spend your first night away from home?
What was it like to come back home after a long vacation?
Write about a disappointment.
Write about something minor that turned into a big deal.
Did you ever win or lose a contest? Tell the story about what happened.
Write about something you desperately wanted when you were younger.
Did you ever know someone who had "everything"?
Write about the time as a child you played in one of the following: treehouse, a cornfield, a construction site, a junkyard, an abandoned house or barn, a stream, a cemetery, a swamp, a pasture, railroad tracks.
Did your mom or dad ever make you wear something you hated?
Write about a time you were talked into something and you regretted it.
Were you ever in a helicopter, limousine, racecar, hot-air balloon, submarine, or horse-drawn carriage?
Write about an experience in a hospital.
Were you ever accused of something that you didn't do?
Write about a disastrous trip or vacation.
Were you ever given a responsibility that you couldn't handle? journal writing prompts
Were you ever in a fire, flood, tornado, or hurricane?
Describe the best concert you ever attended.
Write about a window you broke or something valuable you lost.
Did you ever catch fireflies? Crickets? Frogs? Snakes?
Write about a time you tried to help and ended up making things worse.
Did you ever break an important promise?
Write about moving to another city or neighborhood.
Describe an outdoor game you used to play in the summer time.
Write about building sand castles or mud pies.
Did you ever meet a famous person?
Write about mowing the lawn, burning leaves, or weeding the garden.
Describe the club you organized as a kid.
Describe a car or bicycle accident you were in.
Write about a day spent in another country.
Write about a time you out-smarted someone.
Write about going shopping for new clothes.
Did you ever turn someone in or tell on someone and feel bad about it later?
Imagine that you are an animal in the zoo. What type of animal are you? How do you feel about being caged? How do you feel about people that visit and watch you?
Write about a time your parents embarrassed you.
Describe learning something from a friend.
Write about a time you gave someone good advice.
Write about the funniest thing that ever happened to you.
If you had to escort a visitor from outer space for a 30-minute tour of your community, where would you begin and end?
Be a grape that becomes a raisin: describe how it feels to shrink, to shrivel, to become dry and wrinkled.
Be an icicle that becomes water. Describe how it feels to be cold and firm and full of beautiful crystals but only to melt and lose your shape.
You go to the store with your parents and baby brother. Your parents go into a store and tell you to watch your brother. You take your eyes off your brother for just a minute and you can't find him. You...
I really hate it when my mother/father/sibling...
What if the use of robots in school becomes a workable reality?
What would you pack in your suitcase if you could not go home again?
You have just met an alien from another planet. He wishes to take a student back to his planet. Convince him you would be the perfect specimen for him to take.
If you could change one law, what law would it be and how would you change it?
How forgiving are you when a friend lets you down? Explain. Give an example.
What if you were named principal for the week? What would you do?
If you could only speak twenty words for the rest of your life, what words would head your list and why?
It started out as an unusual Monday morning, when I...
As I approached the deserted house at the end of the road, I saw...
Do you think girls are raised differently from boys? If so, in what ways?
Do you think men and women are equal in today's society? Why or why not?
Do you think a woman will be President of the United States in the near future?
Two men or women have it easier in our culture? If so, why do you think so?
Have you ever wished you were either older or younger? What would you consider to be the benefits? The problems?
Describe what you think of as the typical mother.
Describe what you think of as the typical father.
Do you think women should take men's last names when they marry? Why or why not?
Would you rather have a brother or sister? Why?
Describe a fight you had with your mother. Now tell it from her point of view. journal writing prompts
Write a short biography of your mother.
Write a short biography of your father.
Visualize a time when your mother was laughing. Recall a time when you two shared a good laugh over something.
Write a physical description of your mother. Write as if you were looking at a movie rather than a photograph.
Concentrate on a particular habit that your mother has and write about it.
If you had three wishes, what would they be? (Do not ask for three more wishes)
What is something special and/or different about you? Why do you think it is special or different?
Write about two things that your family has taught you.
Write about some of the things that you worry about.
Describe a happy memory of your family.
How do you know someone loves you, even if he or she doesn't say it?
Name one thing you like about yourself and why you like it.
Imagine yourself as a teacher. What type of student would you like to teach and why?
Name and describe a teacher who made a difference in your life. What did that teacher do that was so special?
What makes you proud to be an American?
Describe the one thing that gives you the most comfort.
If you could be a character in any book, TV show, or movie, who would you be and why?
If you had to work in any store at your favorite mall, which store would it be and why?
Describe the most difficult thing about being your age.
Describe one possession that means the most to you.
Who is the most important role model in your life?
Describe your best personality trait.
If you could study one subject in school that wasn't offered, what would it be and why?
If you had a chance to live anywhere you could, where would it be and why?
Write about the pros/cons of year-round school or a four-day school week.
Write about your favorite sport.
Is the school year too long? Too short? Why?
What does your summer usually consist of?
Who should be paid more, professional athletes or teachers? Why or why not?
What class do you enjoy the most and why?
Write about the worst fight you ever had with a friend.
If you had only one month to live, what would you do?
Describe your dream house.
Who is your favorite person to be with? Why?
What would be your ideal job when you grow up? Explain.
If you could guest star on any TV show, what would it be and why?
What do you think your life will be like in 10 years? 20 years?
Describe how you would manage your own radio or TV station.
What is your definition of success?
The saying goes, "Money cannot buy happiness." Do you agree or disagree? Why?
